The Trinamool Congress has sought an appointment with Home Minister Rajnath Singh on the National Register of Citizens (NRC), with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressing the fear that the State could face an influx of displaced persons from Assam. Ms. Banerjee is likely to meet the Home Minister during her three-day visit to the national capital.

The Trinamool raised the NRC issue in both Houses of Parliament on Monday. Derek O’Brien, MP, said the party would circulate a note to floor leaders of Opposition parties.

In Kolkata, Ms. Banerjee displayed photo identity cards of some people dropped from the draft NRC, and said the Modi government was using the update exercise for “electoral gains”.

“Look, this is the Aadhaar card of one Ontaj Chowdhury. And this one is his passport. But his name has not featured in the draft NRC, while the government had announced that voter identity card, Aadhaar, passport, employment document of employee in government service, driving licence, bank or post office [account], etc., are valid government documents,” she said.

She said she would send a Trinamool MPs’ team to Assam and may even visit the State. The NRC update process had been initiated to “divide and rule”.

“This is most unfortunate as Bengali, Bihari, Hindu, Muslims — everyone — will be affected and we cannot do this kind of politics to identify people from other States and push them back.”

However, Ms. Banerjee said she would not talk to the Bangladesh Prime Minister on the issue as it was “out of her purview”.

Ms. Banerjee is scheduled to address a seminar organised by the Catholics Bishops’ Conference of India in Delhi on Tuesday. However, St. Stephens College cancelled her interaction with students. “Let it be cancelled. I don’t mind. Let God save them. I will attend Bishop’s Conference on the day,” she said.

She is likely to meet Congress leader Sonia Gandhi to invite her for a ‘federal-front’ rally in Kolkata on January 19, and also call on other Opposition leaders during her visit to the Central Hall of Parliament. However, no meeting with Congress president Rahul Gandhi has been scheduled.

The Congress and the Trinamool have been trying to find a middle ground on formation of an alternative front. The Trinamool says Ms. Banerjee is best suited to be lead an Opposition alliance. The Congress, stepping down from its position, said recently that Mr. Gandhi was prepared to back any non-RSS Prime Minister which included Ms. Banerjee.
