The Lower House has been adjourned till 11 am on 1 August, Wednesday.


18:44 (IST)

Congress stages walks out in Lok Sabha

Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge lashed out at Piyush Goyal's claim that the major cases of bad loans took place during the UPA rule. "BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said that UPA government is behind the NPA. You have the record, according to it, today the amount stands at 12 lakh crore. The reason for it is that the BJP is patting its back to claim they have done a good job," he said. He said that the Congress will oppose the bill, after which the party leaders staged a walkout.


18:27 (IST)

Piyush Goyal says Narendra Modi govt changed situation for banks who earlier couldn't recover loans

In his concluding remarks, Union minister Piyush Goyal said that the cases of loan recovery that are troubling India took place before 2014. "Earlier, the person who would take loan of smaller amount would be stressed to repay the sum, but those taking loans in larger amount were carefree. We have changed that situation. Now, the loans are coming back to the banks,' he said.


18:14 (IST)

Bringing an ordinance became necessary, says Piyush Goyal

Deputy Speaker M Thambiduurai extends Lok Sabha proceedings to continue the discussion. Union Minister Piyush Goyal said, "All the proposed amendments were accepted. We tightened our own powers. The committee had given a suggestion for a big power but we said Centre shouldn't get the power. Bringing an ordinance became necessary."


17:00 (IST)

TRS MP says Indian laws treat honest people same as fraudsters

In Lok Sabha, TRS leader Konda Vishweshwar Reddy said, "Ease of resolving insolvency is equally important as ease of doing business. The nature of the fraud triggering insolvency has also increased. Are we a nation of fraudsters and thieves? I don't think so. But our laws treat honest people the way we treat our fraudsters."


16:50 (IST)

Piyush Goyal speaks on Insolvency Law Committee report

'The report of the Insolvency Law Committee came on 26th Mar 2018. Almost every clause of the report has been considered, accepted and brought into this amendment," Union minister Piyush Goyal said in the Lok Sabha. "Since many ministers have raised this issue, I'd like to talk about it. Because of a small minority, because the threshold was kept high, it may lead to liquidation. There is no resolution which is complete as yet."


16:42 (IST)

BJP MP calls Modi govt a 'thinking govt'

In the Lok Sabha, Bhartruhari Mahtab of BJD spoke on the second amendment to The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2018. "I would say it is a big amendment, number of clauses are there. This amendment runs into 40 clauses. I'm not opposed to all the clauses," he said. "What specific steps have been taken through this ordinance that has helped to do away with bad debt? We are just trying to amend the act in just an afterthought. This government is a thinking government. In this specific process of the law, number of sections are being amended."


16:04 (IST)

​Saugata Roy asks who holds the finance portfolio

TMC leader Saugata Roy began his speech by seeking clarification on whether Piyush Goyal is the caretaker finance minister or the full-time finance minister. Deputy Speaker M Thambidurai said that Goyal had already asserted in the House that Arun Jaitley is the finance minister. Roy responded by saying, "At the back of the bill it is written, 'Piyush Goyal Minister of Railways, Finance.' Why are you (Thambidurai) speaking on his behalf? I want to hear it from him."


15:45 (IST)

Centre deliberately trying to denationalise banks, says Veerappa Moily

As Lok Sabha discusses The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2018, Congress member M Veerappa Moily claimed that the Centre was deliberately attempting to denationalise banks. "There's a willful blindness about the main cause of the bad loans. The bad loans are just raising. There is no recycle of funds. I think there is a deliberate effort by the government to denationalise the banks," he said.


15:40 (IST)

RS proceedings disrupted by noisy protests over Assam NRC (2/2)

Later when the House reassembled, the discussion was taken up setting aside the Question Hour.

Participating in the debate, Shah said then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi had signed the Assam Accord on August 14, 1985 and declared it on August 15, after the movement in the state went out of control leading to the death of some protesters.

Shah's remarks provoked noisy protests by the Opposition members led by those from the Congress and the TMC. The House was adjourned for about 10 minutes. As unrelenting protests continued, the Chairman adjourned the proceedings for the day.

PTI

15:38 (IST)

RS proceedings disrupted by noisy protests over Assam NRC (1/2)

The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday witnessed vociferous protests soon after BJP president Amit Shah took a jibe at the erstwhile Congress-led governments for not showing the courage to identify illegal migrants in Assam in accordance with the 1985 accord, forcing adjournment of the proceedings for the day.


Shah's remarks asking whether the Opposition wanted "to save illegal Bangladeshis in Assam", provoked the opposition members including those from the Congress and TMC who trooped into the Well demanding a reply from Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

The first adjournment till noon occurred during the Zero Hour when Trinamool Congress members created an uproar after their demand for a short debate on the NRC in Assam was not accepted by Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu.

PTI

15:28 (IST)

FirstCut by Manjul



15:13 (IST)

Naidu calls Azad, tells him he is unhappy with Parliament proceedings

After Rajya Sabha was adjourned on Tuesday, chairman M Venkaiah Naidu called Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad to his chambers and 'conveyed his unhappiness over the way a good discussion on NRC in Assam was derailed towards the end.'



14:58 (IST)

If previous govts had taken NPAs seriously, this wouldn't have happened: Kirit Somaiya

BJP's Kirit Somaiya says if the previous government had taken NPAs seriously, this wouldn't have happened. He says the BIFR exercise was a miserable failure.


14:57 (IST)

Ordinance passed to benefit certain corporates: Premachandran

MP Premachandran claimed that Ordinance was passed to benefit certain corporates. He says the Ordinance was promulgated just in time for Reliance to benefit from it for the purchase of another company.


14:44 (IST)

Kollam MP opposes Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2018

NK Premachandran, MP from Kollam, opposed the Bill. He wants to know the urgency involved in promulgation of an Ordinance.


14:43 (IST)

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2018

According to PRS India, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2018, amends the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 to clarify that allottees under a real estate project should be treated as financial creditors. The voting threshold for routine decisions taken by the committee of creditors has been reduced from 75% to 51%.  For certain key decisions, this threshold has been reduced to 66%. The Bill allows the withdrawal of a resolution application submitted to the NCLT under the Code.  This decision can be taken with the approval of 90% of the committee of creditors.


14:40 (IST)

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill

Union Finance Minister Piyush Goyal presents the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill in the Lok Sabha​.


14:15 (IST)

Bills scheduled to be tabled in Lok Sabha are:

The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, The Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts (Amendment) Bill are likely to be tabled in the Lok Sabha today.


14:13 (IST)

Only true Indians will live in this country, others can go, says Union Minister

In an argument outside the Parliament House between Union Minister Ashwini Choubey and Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya, Choubey retorted to Bhattacharya's allegations that BJP was misleading the country and said, "Only Indians are allowed in India. Rest can leave."
