Assam NRC draft row: In an embarrassment to the Central government, a Bangladesh minister said that India has not discussed any refugee problem with them. He also said that they have no idea about the 40.07 lakh people who are not included in the National Register of Citizen draft list.

NRC draft row: Bangladesh knows 'nothing about' left out 40 lakh, says India did not discuss refugee problem Representative Image |Photo Credit: PTI New Delhi: Bangladesh has broken its silence on the National Register of Citizen (NRC) draft list that was filed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Assam government on Monday. A Bangladesh minister told Times Now the 40 lakh people who are not included in the draft list are not citizens of their country. Minister of Information and Government Spokesperson of Bangladesh Hasanul Haq Inu told Times Now that the move by the state government is a result of “ethnic conflict within Assam”.
Inu said, “We know nothing about these people. India has not discussed the refugee problem in the last 48 years.” The second and final draft of the NRC was published on Monday where 2.9 crore names out of total applicants of 3.29 crore were listed.



Bangladesh Information Minister Hasanul Haq speaks to TIMES NOW, disowns ‘illegals’, says ‘these persons are not Bangladeshi’ while speaking to @Srinjoy_C #IndiansFirstInIndia


The remaining 40.07 lakh applicants who could not find their names on the list were excluded because of lack of proof of Assamese identity. The Opposition led by Trinamool Congress' Mamata Banerjee and Samajwadi Party created an uproar in the Rajya Sabha on Monday.Home Minister yesterday said that the draft is "impartial" and there was no need to panic for those whose names were not included in the list. "No coercive action will be taken against anyone. Hence, there is no need for anyone to panic," he told reporters here. On Tuesday, West Bengal Chief Minister Banerjee accused the government of resorting to vote-bank politics. While the Assam government termed it as a "historic day" for the state and India, the fate of the 40.07 lakh people is in a limbo with the Centre.  However, a Home Ministry official said that no person, excluded from the draft published, will be declared as a foreigner because the power to do so lies in the hands of tribunals where a person can approach for redressal, as reported by news agency PTI. 
